Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
Today we're talking about the T-test.
It's been a long time coming.
And finally it's here and we are all prepared because we've talked about the t distribution and also
we have all that knowledge about the standard hypothesis testing and we've been doing for so long.
So we will definitely know what is going on when the t test when we're scientists so let's have a look.
Here's our challenge.
It is recommended to walk 10000 steps a day to be healthy.
You are wondering if on average Americans are meeting this recommendation you surveyed 10 random people
about how many steps each of them takes per day on average and got the following responses and thousand
nine hundred eight thousand two hundred eleven dollars 350 and so on.
It's evident that within your sample on average respondents are taking a less than 10000 steps but can
you infer the same results for the whole population of America.
Very interesting question very interesting challenge.
And yes so basically one thing I wanted to point out here is that you will see what will you see this
on average and on average and that where they're coming from is that it is Riggleman to walk 10000 steps
a day to be healthy.
That's assumed like implied on average.
Obviously sometimes will be days when you are glass sometimes walk these days when you will walk more.
So 10000 means on average per day.
And that's why this average is popping up that turn around to people how many steps that take per day
on average meaning like in a week how many days how many steps do they take on average per day or in
one month or in a year.
And same thing here.
So this average what I'm trying to say here is that this average is has nothing to do with our means
our standard deviation and so on is just the way the parameter is constructed.
So if it could have been we could have just had a parameter where you have to it's recommended to walk
this many steps per year.
So what would it be three hundred three million 650000 steps.
Me On million 650000 steps per year.
But we don't have that we have per day so that's why this extra average is popping up but don't let
it confuse you or get you off the track.
We know what we're supposed to do in terms of the T-test and we're going to stick to that and the parameter
can be whatever it needs to be.
So let's just copy the important formation here and let's state all hypotheses so our null hypothesis
is that the number of steps is at least met.
So we want to prove that we can see that it's from here we can just see that there's only two people
with over 10000 means the mean is going to be less than 10000.
So we want to prove that it's less than 10000 for the whole population.
And as we discussed before we need to assume a normal hypothesis which we're going to try to get to
a contradiction and then therefore will be able to reject it.
And therefore the only alternative will be possible so what you want to prove should always be your
alternative hypothesis.
And here we want to prove that the number of steps is not met meaning that it's less than 8000 just
like as we see here and therefore our real hypothesis is that it is at least met so people in America
on average say 10000 or more sets per day.
And our alternative is Will is and hopefully we'll be able to reject the null and keep the alternative
is that they take less than 10000 steps per day.
And what's interesting here first of all I hope that you know now you're more comfortable with this
logic after we've discussed what it means that you cannot reject the null hypothesis previously and
about the contradictions and about what happens if the neural and when we reject and all we keep the
all new possible turnover and so on.
So hopefully you're getting more comfort with that logic and remember to practice that intuition behind
what everything we're doing.
But the other thing I wanted to point out is that it's pretty cool it's a pretty cool notion that you
can just take 10 people survey them and find out something about the whole population of America and
you don't have to or whatever country you live in.
You just you basically you don't have to worry more than that as you'll see you will be able to will
be able to derive some insights from or any 10 and it might be a bit over a like a hard to believe concept
especially if you think of it in the way that oh well I'll just go out and survey my parents my siblings
my children my friends and I'll definitely get 10 people and there's no way that that is going to be
representative of the whole America.
Well that is true.
That is correct.
But the thing there is that that sample isn't random that samples your family and friends and we're
talking about a random sample and even more so if you just go outside on the street and you survey 10
people that samples and random either because those are people who live in your neighborhood those are
people who live in the street and maybe you'll be able to infer something about the people who live
in your street.
But you definitely won't be able to infer something about population of America because that's just
not a random sample.
And remember the assumption is one of the assumptions is that it's a random sample.
It's very important to make sure the sample selected at random and it's much harder to select a random
sample from the whole of America.
Even if you were able to do it then you'd have to like fly to their location or call them up or you
know how would you even select the random sample you need to have all the information all these people.
But as long as you can select a random sample somehow then like somehow magically then this is a pretty
cool notion that turns you then can be in even ten can be enough because we have the t test.
So that's that's a quick comment on the sample there.
And another thing that I can see here is that this distribution has wider tails this time.
So usually our tails go down to the bottom very pretty quickly.
Now they're pretty wide and that's because what we're told before this is a distribution is not a standard
or is this not a normal distribution.
Is a t distribution for the test to stick.
And the key point here as well is that the TCT statistics so as you can see when we draw these We're
not putting the new X bar or the Sigma X bar or P bar to explore in this case.
We're not putting all of those action actually putting a 0 here because we're going to be looking at
the distribution of the t statistic remember like we were told it will calculate Nozette score and we
were saying that the Zed Zed parameter or that statistic has its own distribution which is centered
around 0 and has a standard deviation of one.
Well a t t statistic has its own distribution as well and that's exactly what's going on with it.
And because we are constructing a t distribution which is going to do the inferences for the t distribution
here or from the t distribution rather than from the original sampling distribution and you'll see exactly
why we'll when we talk about the tea table so for knowledge of say this is the t distribution is derived
in the same way.
So it comes from the sampling distribution.
So the central limit theorem still holds holds.
It's just going to be easier for us deal if the t distribution rather than plotting sampling to the
original sampling distribution.
So this is the drive to distribution which we're going to drive just now.
All right.
So let's do this as we discussed some time ago.
Now the best way for us to reject the null hypothesis like the strongest assumption we can make is that
from here that new is actually equal to 10000.
We want to prove that it's less than 10000 based on this data.
If we were just like mue for instance it could be anywhere we could target 15000 but it is going to
be a weaker proof than if we selected a 10000 we want are the strongest proof ever.
And that's why we're going to select 10000 then we're going to say we're going to calculate now.
Now the thing here is we don't know anything about the population.
Usually we at least know the standard deviation or some some parameters of the population here we don't
know anything.
We don't even have any data on that.
What we do know is our dataset here so we can calculate the standard deviation in our dataset.
And as you remember four samples we don't use sigmoid.
So there we go so that's s That's our sample standard deviation and BMI that's not it has nothing to
do with the sampling distribution because for the sampling distribution we have Sigma X bar Sigma bar.
This is s this is just for this one sample we have one sample.
You can write or actually do this in Excel.
So it might contain errors over there.
So you can see that interview is for the population.
That's that's our assumption that's the only thing we we don't actually know it about a bit and then
we're assuming no other relation then S is some variation of our sample.
So you can just take these put these in Excel or into a calculator and based on the formula we discussed
at the start of the course you can calculate the sample standard deviation and then X bar is 8 5 and
I find that's the mean of your move up from your sample.
Basically that's the mean on your sample and as you can see we're not using again we're not using myu
here.
We're not using the X bar anything is not the sampling distribution I mean this is just the mean of
your one sample that you picked out.
Normally we don't calculate these thing that's important to remember.
Normally we don't do calculations about the sample or anything.
We just straight ahead straightaway proceed to the sampling distribution.
But in this case because we don't know that much about the population we have to make inferences about
the population in fact which is going to be using that statistic is going to do all of that for us.
We don't have to make inferences about the population from the sample and then do all those samples.
We're just going to use a t statistic and is going to do all of the he's going to have all of that groundwork
built into the former.
Speaking of which here's a format.
So that is just a formula very similar to that statistic you can see that it's it's and unadjusted version
of that said statistic.
So here we've got X bar VAM put it in MMU which is where same exact same that statistic though we are
calculating for that from sampling distribution.
So that will be myu X bar minus here with X bar minus me.
So that's why we said we're going to be dealing with a T distribution rather than the sampling distribution
with your hand because that's that's the way we're calculating.
That's the way we're structuring the calculations the formulas that we're using when we are applying
the distribution.
There we go at the bottom we've got as divide by square root of number of degrees of freedom as is the
sample standard deviation done.
Put it in New is a number of degrees of freedom.
It's always just the number of samples minus one.
That's just that's just the way it's calculated and voila.
Eight point five nine five minutes 10000 divided.
So on and so on it gives us minus two point ninety five.
So let's plot this t value.
So here we know it's 0 so this these are the standard deviations.
This is just like as in the normal hypothesis testing that the ones we've been doing it has been the
same as if we were plotting is that statistic.
That's that's what it would mean and we're pretty much doing that.
We're just kind of like mixing in the sampling distribution chart and the statistic together because
we kind of it was very intuitive here which is going to plot this.
Now there we go T minus two point ninety five.
So once enervation to stand creation's boom point ninety five standard missions over here and now we
need to find out.
So if we want to reject the null hypothesis we're fine 95 percent confidence.
Now we just need to find our critical t value.
So I'll just show you the tea table now and you'll see what I mean.
So here's a tea table as you can see it's actually smaller than the Zad table.
The score.
But at the same time that is only because they shrunk it to make it legible that if if you were to have
all of the possible values here it would explode would be huge because of the extra variable that we
have the degrees of freedom.
So now you don't have that luxury of actually just looking up a zed value and then finding out the probability.
In fact this table works just like when we were talking about rejection regions.
So remember when we said there's a second way to use the Zad table score when you can just look up a
critical score from your table.
Kind of like reverse engineer your table and plot that critical score because at its core and then compare
your score to the griddles Criddle girls at school for that degree of certainty that you want.
Well that's exactly how the t temples work they don't work in the in the normal way that we do what
we originally discussed for dessert tables.
You cannot based on a t value you cannot just pick out the probability for all for that value it works
either way.
So you say what level of confidence you want so in our case we won t 95 we want 95 percent confidence
that our result is correct or you know that where we want to reject the null hypothesis with a 95 percent
confidence if we can.
And then what we do is we go down so we'll were doing the OneTel tests so 95.
So that means the 5 there's 5 percent we need to find the area with a 5 percent chance of the observation
or our sample falling in there.
And so now basically we look for all degrees of freedom in our case we have how many do we have.
It was nine nine degrees of freedom so we scroll down.
So nine degrees of freedom there it is that's nine degrees of freedom at a 95 percent confidence interval
at nine degrees of freedom.
The tea Krugel is one point eighty eight three three and that's all we have to know.
So we put this into our calculations to critical at 95 degrees confidence and nine degrees of freedom
is minus one point A-330.
So the thing about the tables there we need to know is the way they're set up is the tea table gives
you so this is this is the critical value.
So for 95 degree 95 percent confidence and nine degrees of freedom.
This is the critical value that's on the right here.
So for instance it would be somewhere here 1.8 3:03 and basically or a 1.6 one to 1.3 it's sitting over
here.
So that means that anything to the right of the critical value you reject.
That's the way the tables are set up so whatever value see that means if you're doing their testing
the right tail over here then you rejected if it's greater than the critical value.
But because the tea table the tea distribution is symmetrical that means you can just metrically look
at it over here meaning that our tea critical because we will be dealing with the left tail is minus
one point eighty three.
So it's actually somewhere over here that's pretty critical and therefore we reject anything to the
left as you can see our value falls to the left so TI's less than the critical it falls into this rejection
tale.
And yeah that basically means that in our case we can reject the null hypothesis and therefore So we've
come to a contradiction.
Basically what this is saying is that it is so unlikely if if this is if this were true that on average
in America people are taking more than 10000 steps or more per day then this is where the distribution
would have.
And it would be so unlikely for us to pick out this random sample this exact this random sample of these
parameters that we've calculated it would be so unlikely that we can with a 95 percent chance a degree
of confidence reject the null hypothesis and therefore sort of come to a contradiction that it's so
unlikely we can reject the null hypothesis and therefore the only officer only possible alternative
is the alternative hypothesis where they are taking less than 10000 steps.
And what I wanted to point out here is that as you can see the tails are thicker here.
Well there's just a just abysmal zation But what is this means is that tails I think are here and the
distribution actually allows for values to go further away and we discuss the distribution of values
to go further away and it's just the way that we've drawn it and also based on the parameters that we've
calculated that in this case we're still we've still found a sample that doesn't conform to the distribution
and therefore this distribution cannot be the true case.
And the reason for that is that you can see just even on the sample that a lot of the people here are
taking way less than 10000 steps 6000 6000 and so on that if this is a random sample it would be very
unlikely given the distribution would be very unlikely to pick out this random sample even in a T-test
not just a zed test but even in a t test which is even harder to prove which is which allows for more
variation in your data for more values to be in the tails it still is not something that is plausible
and we rejecting this null hypothesis.
So there we go.
I hope this clarifies up.
What's a t test is and how how to apply it as you can see it's a very similar process we just calculate
a t statistic instead of that statistic and then we compare it to the critical statistic for that level
of conference we want and the number of number of degrees of freedom.
And by the way if you look at the table.
So if you look at this table you'll see that what happens when you increase the degrees of freedom.
You can see that the values change at the start so they change rapidly.
Quite a lot.
But then they start to change slower and slower and slower.
So when you get to 30 you can see that the values are barely changing at all and that's why after 30
this table or this table specifically it skips and goes to 40 to 60 because just to show us that you
know what is it converging to that's that's used that statistic over there you can see.
So it's it's it's like pretty much becomes a statistic already after 30 1 6 9 7 1 6 4 5.
No big change happening after that and that's what we mean that's after 30 degrees of freedom there's
not much point in using a tea table that you can just use as a statistic approach as before.
So there we go I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then have analyzing.